---
layout: post-no-feature
title: "Movement: @45°N, 180°W"
description: "Focus shift - Ascension III and the next Escapes"
category: articles
tags: [app, development, Ascension, Escapes]
---

Weird title for a blog post? Uhm... no. It's a song from the band `dredg`. If you don't know their album `Leitmotif` you missed something. It's one of the greatest independent Art-Rock releases ever. As the title suggests, it's about heading in a different direction and this is what this blog post is all about. Not so weird after all. After all these years I never looked up where the coordinates lead to. If you do, tell me!

Boy, it's been an amazing year. People love and obviously buy my software which makes me feel great and it spurs me to continue with what I'm doing. So bascially, everything is just fine? Well... no. When I started development of what I expected to become Ascension 2 back in 2012, I had the goal to make it the best NFO/DIZ viewer available. The most wanted feature was rendering ANSi art. It took half a year and three men (count [@fcambus](http://twitter.com/fcambus) and [@bricas](http://twitter.com/bricas) to the crew) to port a PHP application ([AnsiLove/PHP](http://ansilove.sourceforge.net/)) to the C programming language. That was a shitload of work and bug hunting. Before we continue I'd like to thank Fred and Brian for their support. Without you guys, all of this would have never been possible. After the result of our hard work ([AnsiLove/C](http://github.com/ByteProject/AnsiLove-C)) was finally usable, I created a Cocoa framework on top of it.

And then? I decided that Ascension should remain plain and simple (the way it's always been) and that all the hard work and progress will arrive with a new app: Escapes. It was a mistake. A mistake I'm carrying with me now for more than a year. Don't get me wrong. Both apps are great. The problem is: both apps are just too similar. Escapes is Ascension with some more options, customizable themes and ANSi rendering, that's it. My customers deserve something better, so let's talk about the future...

I think we should start with `Ascension III`. You guys know I'm busy developing it for some months now and not much words have been said about it yet. While I was pretty open for sharing my development progress on Twitter through the years, I did not so with the brandnew Ascension. I just had to find the right words. Ascension III will be the Ascension it should have always been, from the very beginning. It's been rewritten from scratch. It comes with ALL the features you know from Escapes (customizable themes, ANSi rendering, image export, social network sharing and more) but that's not all. There is also a shiny new retro-inspired UI and there are so many new features. I won't disclose all secrets now, but I did a pixel-perfect recreation of the original DOS font, just to render ASCII as intended in real textmode. I also completely recreated the text rendering, so pixel fonts will look crisp and sharp - the way they should look. We don't want font smoothing in retro fonts. I'm feeling great thinking about what's happening with Ascension and when I listen to my heart it feels right do head into this direction. It also feels very good to admit I made a mistake. You wanted the best Ascension ever, you get it. Please note that Ascension III will be the first paid upgrade in 4 years (suprise, I need to make a living after all).

So... but what will haben to `Escapes` you might ask? And you have the right to ask it. Now that we already know Ascension will be a better Escapes it's okay to pull it off the Mac App Store? Uhm.. no. I have great plans for the next Escapes, a reborn Escapes and I'm glad to share it with you now. The Escapes you all know is dead. The next Escapes will be an ANSi draw / editor, but not like the one's you already know. It will look and behave like modern pixel image editors with all the good stuff you usually love with pixel image editors... effects, layers and more. Totally different app. It's always been a dream of mine to create a modern ANSi art editor and now the dream becomes reality. Both apps will work together, will complement each other. And that is exactly how it should be. But more on that later. The app is in pre-Alpha state and I'm already able to paint but exports look like someone did a dump right onto your screen. 

Now what does that mean for you as a customer? That's perhaps the most important question. If you bought Ascension, you will need to buy Ascension III for an upgrade. I'm planning to release it on the App Store at a discounted price for a limited time, so you can do an upgrade to a fair price. If you bought Escapes, I understand you will now want to have Ascension III and you can upgrade at a discounted price for a limited time as well. BUT... as a customer who bought Escapes, you won't need to pay for the next version. The ANSi draw / editor will be released as a free upgrade to all existing Escapes customers. Escapes in it's current form won't be pulled from the Mac App Store. It will remain there, so if you are interested in supporting development of the brandnew Escapes, you can buy it NOW at a discounted price and have it when it's done. The price for the ANSi draw will be slightly higher. I'm fully focusing on it once Ascension III is out. I will update the Escapes product information on the Mac App Store soon so everyone knows whats going on and what it means to hit the buy button. If you have questions, don't hesitate to contact me. Stay retro!  